1. Introduction to the print() function in Python.
--> Print is an inbuilt function used to print appropriate msg on the console screen.
syntax : print("msg")
eg : print("Welcome to Python Programming")


2. Formatting outputs using f-strings and format()
-->f-string() is known as Formatting string.We use f-string() to display our code into readable and powerful way.By using f-string() mixed data can be displayed().
for eg : if i have data like name = "Bhumi"
                             age = "20"
so iss data ko display krne k liye we use f-string() 
It is displayed as : print("My name is:"{name},"I am":{age} "years old.")

3.Using the input() function to read user input from the keyboard.
--> For taking input we have another inbuilt function which is input().by using it we can take input from the user.
eg : input("Enter a number")
This will take input from the user which can be inserted from the keyboard.

4.Converting user input into different data types (e.g., int, float, etc.)
--> By default input function takes string values.For defining it in int,float,char we have to write them before input.
for eg : int(input("Enter a number"))
This will take input in int only no float and string values are allowed.
for restricting data of one datatype we use such function.

5. Opening files in different modes ('r', 'w', 'a', 'r+', 'w+').
--> In python we open file using open() function we can open a file.For Opening of file we have different modes.There are 3 modes : read,write,append
read is used for reading the file data.
write is used for over-writing the data in it.
append is used to add data at the end of file without removing old ones.
r+ is used for both read and write in the file.File should be there.
w+ is used for both write and read in the file.

6. Using the open() function to create and access files.
--> Open function is used to open the python file.Via this file can be read,write or append.
eg : file = open("example.txt","w")
     file.write("HELLO!")
     file.close()

7. Closing files using close().
--> close function is used to close the python file.
eg : file = open("example.txt","r")
     file.close()

8. Reading from a file using read(), readline(), readlines().
--> For reading files in python there are 3 methods : read,readline,readlines.
(1) read : ye function puri file ko ek string ke way me return krta hai.
(2) readline : ye function ek line ko read krta hai.
(3) readlines : ye function puri file ko list of line me convert krta hai.


9. Writing to a file using write() and writelines()
--> write() : This function is used to write string in a file.
    writelines() : list of strings ko file me likhna.

10.Introduction to exceptions and how to handle them using try, except, and finally.
--> Exceptions are used to handle any error using exception handling.
There are 3 blocks : try,except,finally
(1) try : ye block jab use hota h jab error aane k chances hote hai.
(2) except : ye block koi specific error ko handle karne k liye use hota h.
(3) finally : ye block always execute hoga even though there is error or not.
for eg : 
try:
    x = 10 / 0  
except ZeroDivisionError:
    print("Cannot divide by zero!!")
finally:
    print("Execution completed succesfully!")

11.Understanding multiple exceptions and custom exceptions.
-->

12.Understanding the concepts of classes, objects, attributes, and methods in Python.
-->class : A class is a blueprint of objects.It stores data for objects.
objects : An object is an instance of a class.
eg : The classroom of students is class and students are objects.
attributes : Attributes are variables that hold data which belongs to class and its objects.
methods : Methods are functions defined within class and connected with any object.

13.Difference between local and global variables.
--> Local variables : Variables are declared inside the function or block of code.
It is accessible only within the function or block where they are defined.
Global variables : Variables are declared outside the functions or any place of code.
It is accessible from any part of program including inside functions.

14.Single, Multilevel, Multiple, Hierarchical, and Hybrid inheritance in Python.
-->Inheritance means to inherit derived properties from parent class to child class or base class to sub class.
There are 5 types of inheritance :
(1)Single inheritance : One child class inherits from one parent class.
eg : parentclass
          |
     childclass
(2)Multilevel inheritance : one class inherits from another class and itself inherits from another class.
eg : Grandparents
        |
     parents
        |
     child
(3)Multiple inheritance : one class inherits from more than one parent class.
eg : parentclass1       parentclass2
               \            /
                \          /
                childclass
(4)Hierarchical inheritance : multiple classes inherits from a single parent class.
eg:                  ParentClass
                     /    |    \
         childclass1 childclass2 childclass3
(5)Hybrid inheritance : It is a combination of two or more types of inheritance.
eg:                ParentClass
                   /         \
            childclass1      childclass2
                \               /
                 Subchildclass

15.Using the super() function to access properties of the parent class.
--> super() ek inbuilt function h jo parent class ke methods or properties ko access krne me help krta h indirectly.
It is also known as Proxy object in python.It is especially useful in inheritance and multiple inheritance.


16.Method overloading: defining multiple methods with the same name but different
parameters.
--> Method overloading is not supported in python.
It is also known as static binding.
It is a method with same name same class but with different parameters.

17.Method overriding: redefining a parent class method in the child class.
--> Method overriding is a method with same name same arguments but with different class.
It is supported in python.
It is also known as dynamic binding.